It is curious that the Human cannot envision the consciousness of any kind of animal but
itself. To regard another human as having this trait is somehow empathetic, a virtue. To
regard an animal as having this trait is beyond the capability of the Human. It has ceased
to be a virtue and has fallen into fallacy or ignorance.

This idea must be challenged. There is no good reason to regard the Human as superior in 
mental faculty (used purely in a discrete sense) to other animals. The Human has taught
the Silverback Gorilla the art of language, and the Silverback has proved it can 
remember, and moreover, it can reason. Please read of Koko, and Michael - both 
silverback gorillas.

This idea can be challenged further. The art of imagination is perhaps described as 
selectively firing neurons in such a pattern as to closely resemble a physical interaction
with the world without actually creating or experiencing that interaction. The Rat has
proved it can fire neurons specifically used for movement without the associated movement.
Not only does this show an ability to imagine, but it shows an ability to learn to
differentiate between reality and imagination.

Has there been research into birds (such as the Kia) that demonstrates the same thing?

It is shown that there are at least some traits held to be specific only to the Human that
are not, and are instead, at most, specific to mammals. Learning where lines should be
drawn, and for which trait, will no doubt yield greater understanding into the mechanics
of thought, intellect, and 'humanity'.

Furthermore; when we treat these qualities as no longer discrete, but instead a spectrum
where one may occupy a position -- with zero as a minimum and no known maximum - for it
would be arrogant to claim the Human has achieved some maximum on a scale we have not yet
begun to understand -- we can begin to accept that qualities like imagination, planning, 
empathy, understanding, reason, and integrity are possessed by not just us, but all those
animals that share identifiably similar brains. The difference between the Human's brain 
and that of the Silverback is simply size; this also applies for all the primates and all
other mammals too. It is naive to claim humans possess _traits_ that other mammals do not;
it is not, however, to claim a difference in extent of these traits. If one human can
differ from another in these extents, why is it so hard to believe the same is true for
another mammal?
